<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<!-- 
Created by Chris Lai on 2016.04.24 
Copyright © 2016 Chris Lai. All rights reserved. 

Static page that explain the rule of magic toward a newer playaer who is not familiar with this game
-->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core" 
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets">

    <h:body>
        <ui:composition template="template/commonLayout.xhtml">
            <ui:define name="content">
                <div class="panel  knowledgeBase">                
                    <h1 class="centerText">Magic the Gathering<br /> Guide to a Game</h1>

                    <p>
                        <b>Get a Deck:</b>
                        You’ll need your own Magic deck. You’ll also need a way to keep track of both players’ life totals, as well as small items to
                        use as counters or tokens.
                        When you’re first getting started, you may want to pick up a ready-to-play deck, such as an intro pack or event deck, or
                        borrow a deck from a friend. After you’ve built up your collection, try building your own deck using the guidelines on page 15
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Grab a friend:</b>
                        To play a game, you’ll need an opponent! Your opponent will play against you using his or her own deck.
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Start Game:</b>
                        Each player starts at 20 life. You win the game
                        by reducing your opponent to 0 life. You also
                        win if your opponent has to draw a card when
                        none are left in his or her deck, or if a spell or
                        ability says that you win.<br />
                        Decide which player will go first. If you’ve
                        just played the same opponent, the loser of the
                        last game decides who goes first. Otherwise, roll
                        a die or flip a coin to see who gets to decide.
                        Each player shuffles his or her deck, then
                        draws a hand of seven cards to start. If you
                        don’t like your opening hand, you can mulligan.
                        Shuffle your hand back into your deck and draw
                        a new hand of six cards. You can keep doing
                        this, drawing a hand of one fewer card each
                        time, until you decide to keep your cards.
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Taking A turn:</b>
                        Below are the parts of a turn. Each turn proceeds in the same sequence. Whenever you enter a new step or phase, any triggered abilities
                        that happen during that step or phase trigger and are put on the stack. The active player (the player whose turn it is) gets to cast spells and
                        activate abilities, then the other player does. When both players in a row decline to do anything and nothing is waiting to resolve, the game
                        will move to the next step or phase.
                        With each part of the turn is a description of what can happen during that part, if it’s your turn.
                    </p>

                    <b>1. Beginning Phase</b><br />
                    <ul>
                        <li>a. Untap step<br />
                            You untap all your tapped permanents. On the first turn of the
                            game, you don’t have any permanents, so you just skip this step. No
                            one can cast spells or activate abilities during this step.</li>
                        <li>b. Upkeep step<br />
                            This part of the turn is mentioned on a number of cards. If
                            something is supposed to happen just once per turn, right at the
                            beginning, an ability will trigger “at the beginning of your upkeep.”
                            Players can cast instants and activate abilities.
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            c. Draw step<br />
                            You draw a card from your library. (The player who goes first skips
                            the draw step on his or her first turn to make up for the advantage
                            of going first.) Players can then cast instants and activate abilities.
                        </li>
                    </ul>

                    <b>2. Main Phase</b><br />
                    You can cast any number of sorceries, instants, creatures, artifacts,
                    enchantments, and planeswalkers, and you can activate abilities.
                    You can play a land during this phase, but remember that you
                    can play only one land during your turn. Your opponent can cast
                    instants and activate abilities.<br />

                    <b>3. Combat Phase</b>
                    <ul>
                        <li>a. Beginning of combat step
                            Players can cast instants and activate abilities. This is your
                            opponent’s last chance to cast spells or activate abilities that stop
                            your creatures from attacking.</li>
                        <li>b. Declare attackers step
                            You decide which, if any, of your untapped creatures will attack
                            and which player or planeswalker they will attack. Then they do
                            so. This taps the attacking creatures. Players can then cast instants
                            and activate abilities.</li>
                        <li>c. Declare blockers step
                            Your opponent decides which, if any, of his or her untapped creatures
                            will block your attacking creatures, then they do so. If multiple
                            creatures block a single attacker, you order the blockers to show
                            which is first in line for damage, which is second, and so on. Players
                            can then cast instants and activate abilities.</li>
                        <li>d. Combat damage step
                            Each attacking or blocking creature that’s still on the battlefield
                            assigns its combat damage to the defending player (if it’s attacking
                            that player and wasn’t blocked), to a planeswalker (if it’s attacking
                            that planeswalker and wasn’t blocked), to the creature or creatures
                            blocking it, or to the creature it’s blocking. If an attacking creature is
                            blocked by multiple creatures, you divide its combat damage among
                            them by assigning at least enough damage to the first blocking
                            creature in line to destroy it before assigning damage to the next
                            one in line, and so on. Once players decide how the creatures they
                            control will deal their combat damage, the damage is all dealt at the
                            same time. Players can then cast instants and activate abilities.</li>
                        <li>e. End of combat step
                            Players can cast instants and activate abilities.</li>
                    </ul>
                    <b>4. Main Phase</b><br />
                    Your second main phase is just like your first main phase. You can
                    cast every type of spell and activate abilities, but your opponent can
                    only cast instants and activate abilities. You can play a land during this
                    phase if you didn’t during your first main phase.<br />

                    <b>5. Ending Phase</b><br />
                    <ul>
                        <li>a. End step
                            Abilities that trigger “at the beginning of your end step” go on the
                            stack. Players can then cast instants and activate abilities.</li>
                        <li>b. Cleanup step
                            If you have more than seven cards in your hand, choose and discard
                            cards until you have only seven. Next, all damage on creatures is
                            removed and all “until end of turn” and “this turn” effects end. No
                            one can cast instants or activate abilities unless an ability triggers
                            during this step.</li>
                    </ul>
                    For more rules, visit this<a href="http://media.wizards.com/images/magic/resources/rules/EN_MTGM14_PrintedRulebook_LR.pdf"> link</a>.
                </div> 
            </ui:define>
        </ui:composition>
    </h:body>
</html>

