<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core" 
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets">

    <h:body>
        <ui:composition template="template/commonLayout.xhtml">
            <ui:define name="content">
                <div class="panel knowledgeBase">
                    <h1 class="centerText">Pokémon</h1>
                    Pokémon TCG games are fast and furious. Here’s the summary to play right away!<br />
                    <b>WINNING THE GAME</b><br />
                    You can win the game in 3 ways:<br />
                    Take all of your Prize cards.<br />
                    Knock Out all of your opponent’s in-play Pokémon.<br />
                    If your opponent’s deck has no cards in it at the beginning of his or her turn.<br /><br />
                    
                    <b>HOW TO START A GAME</b><br />
                    1<br />
                    2<br />
                    3<br />
                    Shake hands with your opponent.<br />
                    Flip a coin. The winner of the coin flip decides which player goes first.<br />
                    Shuffle your 60-card deck and draw the top 7 cards.<br />
                    Check to see if you have any Basic Pokémon in your hand.<br />
                    Put one of your Basic Pokémon face down as your Active Pokémon.<br />
                    Put up to 5 more Basic Pokémon face down on your Bench.<br />
                    Put the top 6 cards of your deck off to the side face down as your Prize cards.<br />
                    Both players flip all their face-down Pokémon face up and start the game!<br /><br />
                    
                    <b>PARTS OF A TURN</b><br />
                    Each turn has 3 main parts:<br />
                    Draw a card.<br />
                    Do any of the following actions in any order:<br />
                    Put Basic Pokémon cards from your hand onto your Bench (as many times as you want).<br />
                    Evolve your Pokémon (as many times as you want).<br />
                    Attach an Energy card from your hand to one of your Pokémon (once per turn).<br />
                    Play Trainer cards (as many as you want, but only one Supporter card and one Stadium card per turn).<br />
                    Retreat your Active Pokémon (only once per turn).<br />
                    Use Abilities (as many as you want).<br />
                    Attack. Then, end your turn.<br />
                    <b>TURN ACTIONS</b><br />
                    <b>DRAW A CARD</b><br />
                    Start your turn by drawing a card. (If there are no cards in your deck at the beginning of your turn and you cannot draw a card,
                    the game is over, and your opponent wins.)<br /><br />
                    <b>DO ANY OF THESE IN ANY ORDER:</b>
                    Put Basic Pokémon cards from your hand onto your Bench (as many as you want).
                    Choose a Basic Pokémon card from your hand and put it face up onto your Bench. 
                    Your Bench can hold up to 5
                    Pokémon, so you can only do this if there are 4 or fewer Pokémon on your Bench.
                    Evolve Pokémon (as many as you want).<br />
                    If you have a card in your hand that says “Evolves from so-and-so”
                    and so-and-so is the name of a Pokémon you had in play at the
                    beginning of your turn, you may play that card in your hand on top
                    of Pokémon so-and-so. This is called “evolving” a Pokémon.
                    You may evolve a Basic Pokémon to a Stage 1 Pokémon or a Stage
                    1 Pokémon to a Stage 2 Pokémon. When a Pokémon evolves, it
                    keeps all cards attached to it (Energy cards, Evolution cards, etc.)
                    and keeps any damage it already has, but it can’t use the attacks
                    and Abilities of the Pokémon from which it evolved. Special
                    Conditions on the Pokémon—such as Asleep, Confused, or
                    Poisoned—also end when it evolves.
                    Attach an Energy card to one of your Pokémon(once per turn).
                    Take 1 Energy card from your hand and put it under either your
                    Active Pokémon or one of your Benched Pokémon. You can attach
                    Energy just once each turn!<br /><br />

                    <b>Play Trainer cards</b><br />
                    When you play any Trainer card, do what it says and obey the rule at
                    the bottom of the card, and then put it in the discard pile. You can play
                    as many Item cards as you like. Supporter cards are played like Item
                    cards, but you can play only one Supporter card each turn. Stadium cards
                    stay in play until another card removes them, but you can play only one
                    Stadium card each turn.<br />
                    Retreat your Active Pokémon (once per turn).
                    On most turns, you probably will not retreat, but if your Active
                    Pokémon has lots of damage counters on it, you might want to retreat
                    it and bring out a Pokémon from your Bench to fight instead. You may
                    also want to do this if you have a strong Pokémon on the Bench ready
                    to battle!<br />
                    To retreat, you must discard 1 Energy from your Active Pokémon for
                    each listed in its Retreat Cost. If no are listed, it retreats for free.
                    Then, you switch that retreating Pokémon with a Pokémon from your
                    Bench. Keep all damage counters and all attached cards with each
                    Pokémon when they switch. Asleep or Paralyzed Pokémon cannot retreat.
                    When your Active Pokémon goes to your Bench (whether it retreated
                    or got there some other way), some things do go away—Special
                    Conditions and any effects from attacks.<br />
                    If you retreat, you can still attack that turn with your new Active Pokémon.
                    Use Abilities (as many as you want).<br />
                    Some Pokémon have special Abilities they can use. Many of them can be
                    used before you attack. Each Ability is different, though, so read carefully
                    to see how each one works. Some work only if a condition is met, while
                    others work all the time even without you using them. Be sure to announce
                    which Abilities you are using so your opponent knows what you’re doing.<br /><br />

                    <b>ATTACK AND END YOUR TURN</b><br />
                    When you are ready to attack, first make sure that you’ve done everything in step 2 that you want to do. Once you attack, your
                    turn is over, so you can’t go back later!
                    Attacking has three simple steps. Once you get it figured out, you’ll be attacking like a pro in no time!
                    CHECK the Energy attached to
                    your Active Pokémon.
                    You need the right amount of Energy
                    attached to a Pokémon for it to attack.
                    For example, look at Chespin. Its Vine Whip
                    attack costs , so you must have at least
                    1 Energy attached to Chespin to use this
                    attack. Next, its Seed Bomb attack costs
                    . You need at least 2 Energy attached
                    to Chespin to use Seed Bomb, and the
                    means you need to have 1 Energy
                    attached. However, the means that any
                    kind of Energy can be used for the second
                    Energy. will work, but so will , , or
                    any other Energy type. Once you are sure
                    you have the right Energy, announce which
                    attack you are using.<br /><br />

                    <b>CHECK Weakness and Resistance of your opponent’s Active Pokémon</b><br />
                    Some Pokémon have Weakness or Resistance to Pokémon of certain other types,
                    marked in the lower-left corner of the card. (For example, Froakie has a Weakness
                    to Pokémon.) If the attack does damage, your opponent’s Active Pokémon takes
                    more damage if it has Weakness to the attacker’s type. It takes less damage from a
                    Pokémon if it has Resistance to that Pokémon’s type.<br />
                    PUT damage counters on your opponent’s Active Pokémon.
                    When you attack, put 1 damage counter on your opponent’s Active Pokémon for
                    each 10 damage your Pokémon’s attack does (written to the right of the attack
                    name). In the example above, Chespin’s Vine Whip does 10 damage. Then, Froakie’s
                    Weakness of x2 to Pokémon makes that 10 x 2 = 20 damage. So put 2 damage
                    counters with 10s on them on Froakie. If an attack says to do something else, be
                    sure to do that, too!<br />
                    Your attack is complete, so check to see if any Pokémon were Knocked Out by the
                    attack. Some attacks can damage more than one Pokémon, and sometimes they
                    can even damage the attacking Pokémon! So, make sure to check every Pokémon
                    that was affected by the attack.<br />
                    If a Pokémon has total damage at least equal to its HP (for example, 5 or more
                    damage counters on a Pokémon with 50 HP), it is Knocked Out. If a player’s
                    Pokémon is Knocked Out, that player puts it and all cards attached to it in the
                    discard pile. That player’s opponent takes 1 of his or her own Prize cards and puts it
                    into his or her hand.<br />
                    The player whose Pokémon was Knocked Out chooses a new Active Pokémon from
                    his or her Bench. If your opponent can’t do this because his or her Bench is empty
                    (or for any other reason), you win the game! If your opponent still has Pokémon in
                    play, but you just took your last Prize card, you also win the game!
                    Your turn is over.<br />
                    Next, you take care of a few special things during the between-turns step<br /><br />

                    <b>BETWEEN-TURNS STEP</b><br />
                    Before the game continues to the next player, take care of Special Conditions in this order:
                    1. POISONED 2. BURNED 3. ASLEEP 4. PARALYZED<br />
                    Then, apply the effects of any Abilities (or anything else that a card states must happen between turns). After both
                    players have done these things, check to see if affected Pokémon were Knocked Out. Then, start the next player’s turn!<br /><br />
                    
                    <b>SPECIAL CONDITIONS</b><br />
                    Some attacks leave the Active Pokémon Asleep, Burned, Confused, Paralyzed, or Poisoned—these are called “Special Conditions.” They can
                    only happen to an Active Pokémon—when a Pokémon goes to the Bench, you remove all its Special Conditions.
                    Evolving a Pokémon also removes its Special Conditions.<br /><br />
                    
                    <b>Asleep</b><br />
                    Turn the Pokémon counterclockwise to
                    show that it is Asleep.
                    If a Pokémon is Asleep, it cannot attack or
                    retreat. Between turns, flip a coin. If you
                    flip heads, the Pokémon wakes up (turn the
                    card back right-side up), but if you flip tails,
                    it stays Asleep.<br /><br />
                    
                    <b>Burned</b><br />
                    If a Pokémon is Burned, it may take damage
                    between turns. When a Pokémon is Burned,
                    put a Burn marker on it. Between turns, the
                    owner of the Burned Pokémon flips a coin.
                    If he or she flips tails, put 2 damage
                    counters on the Burned Pokémon.
                    A Pokémon cannot have two Burn markers;
                    if an attack gives it another Burn marker, the
                    new Burned Condition simply replaces the
                    old one. Make sure your Burn markers look
                    different from your damage counters<br /><br />
                    
                    <b>Confused</b><br />
                    Turn a Confused Pokémon with its head
                    pointed toward you to show that it is
                    Confused.
                    If a Pokémon is Confused, you must flip a
                    coin before attacking with that Pokémon.
                    If you flip heads, the attack works normally,
                    but if you flip tails, your Pokémon receives
                    3 damage counters and the attack ends
                    without further effect.<br /><br />
                    
                    <b>Paralyzed</b><br />
                    Turn the Paralyzed Pokémon clockwise to
                    show that it is Paralyzed.
                    If a Pokémon is Paralyzed, it cannot attack
                    or retreat. Remove the Special Condition
                    Paralyzed during the between-turns step
                    if your Pokémon was Paralyzed since the
                    beginning of your last turn.<br /><br />
                    
                    <b>Poisoned</b><br />
                    A Poisoned Pokémon takes damage
                    between turns. When a Pokémon is
                    Poisoned, put a Poison marker on it. Put a
                    damage counter on each Poisoned Pokémon
                    during each between-turns step. A Pokémon
                    cannot have two Poison markers; if an attack
                    gives it another Poison marker, the new
                    Poisoned Condition simply replaces the
                    old one. Make sure your Poison markers look
                    different from your damage counters.<br />
                    
                    <b>Removing Special Conditions</b><br />
                    Moving to the Bench removes all Special
                    Conditions. The only Special Conditions that
                    prevent Pokémon from retreating are Asleep
                    and Paralyzed. Since Asleep, Confused,
                    and Paralyzed all rotate the Pokémon
                    card, whichever one happened last to the
                    Pokémon is the only one that is still in effect.
                    Since Poisoned and Burned use markers,
                    those don’t affect other Special Conditions.
                    An unfortunate Pokémon could be Poisoned,
                    Burned, and Paralyzed all at the same time!
                </div>
            </ui:define>
        </ui:composition>
    </h:body>
</html>

