<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core" 
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets">

    <h:body>
        <ui:composition template="template/commonLayout.xhtml">
            <ui:define name="content">
                <div class="panel knowledgeBase">              
                    <h1 class="centerText">YuGiOh</h1>

                    <h2>How to play</h2>
                    <h3>How to Duel and How to Win</h3>
                    A single game is called a Duel, and a Duel ends when one player wins
                    or the game ends in a draw. Duels are played in sets of 3 called a
                    Match, and the winner of best 2-out-of-3 wins the Match.
                    <h3>Winning a Duel</h3>
                    Each player starts a Duel with 8000 Life Points. You win a Duel if: you
                    reduce your opponent’s Life Points to 0; if your opponent is unable
                    to draw a card; or if a card’s special effect says you win. If you and
                    your opponent both reach 0 Life Points at the same time, the Duel
                    is declared a draw.
                    <h3>Victory Conditions</h3>
                    • Reduce your opponent’s Life Points to 0.<br />
                    • Your opponent is unable to draw a card when they are
                    supposed to draw.<br />
                    • Win with a card’s special effect.<br />

                    <h3>Preparing to Duel</h3>
                    Before starting a Duel, follow these 4 steps. Also, make sure you
                    have all your extra items that your Deck might need, like a coin
                    or counters.<br />
                    After greeting your opponent, shuffle your Deck thoroughly. Then you may
                    shuffle and cut your opponent’s Deck (be careful when touching your opponent’s
                    cards).<br />
                    After cutting, place the Decks face-down in the proper Deck Zones on the field.
                    If using an Extra Deck with Synchro Monsters or Fusion Monsters, place it 
                    face-down in the Extra Deck Zone.<br />
                    Both players show each other their Side Decks, and record the number of cards in
                    it, also confirming that they have 15 or fewer cards (the cards should be counted
                    face-down). If you exchange cards between your Side and Main Decks after a
                    Duel, count the cards of your Side Deck for your opponent again to show that the
                    number of your cards remain the same.<br />

                    Play rock-paper-scissors or flip a coin. The winner decides to go first or second
                    in the Duel. For your next Duels, the loser of the previous Duel decides who goes
                    first. If the previous Duel ended in a tie, determine who starts first in the next
                    Duel with another coin toss, etc.<br />
                    Finally, draw 5 cards from the top of your Deck; this is your starting hand<br />

                    <h3>Turn Structure</h3>
                    A Duel progresses in a series of turns which are divided into phases.
                    <b>Turns</b><br />
                    During a Duel, players alternate taking turns. Each player’s turn
                    consists of up to six phases.
                    <b>Phases</b><br />
                    You move through the phases of your turn in the order shown on the
                    right. You can only do certain things during each phase, as detailed
                    in this chapter.

                    <h3>Draw Phase</h3>
                    <b>Standby Phase</b><br />
                    This is the first phase. The player whose turn it is (the “turn player”)
                    draws 1 card from the top of their Deck. A player with no cards left
                    in their Deck and unable to draw loses the Duel. After you draw, Trap
                    Cards or Quick-Play Spell Cards can be activated before proceeding
                    to the Standby Phase.<br />
                    Some cards have effects that activate, or costs you must pay, in the
                    Standby Phase. If you do not have any of these cards on the field,
                    you can still activate Trap Cards or Quick-Play Spell Cards before
                    moving on to your Main Phase 1.<br />
                    Main Action in this phase<br />
                    Possible Other Actions<br />
                    Draw 1 Card<br />
                    Activate Trap Cards, Quick-Play<br />
                    Spell Cards, etc.<br />
                    Main Action in this phase<br />
                    Possible Other Actions<br />
                    Resolve card effects that happen<br />
                    in this phase<br />
                    Activate Trap Cards, Quick-Play<br />
                    Spell Cards, etc.<br />
                    <br />
                    <h3>Main Phase 1</h3>
                    This is when you play most of your cards: you can Normal Summon,
                    Set, or change the battle position of a monster, activate a card’s
                    effect, and Set Spell and Trap Cards. These actions can be done in
                    any order you want, but some actions have restrictions.<br />
                    <b>Possible Actions in this phase</b><br />
                    Summon or Set a Monster<br />
                    There is no limit to the number of times you can Flip Summon or
                    Special Summon during a turn, but you can only Normal Summon
                    or Set a monster (including a Tribute Summon) once per turn.
                    Change Your Monsters’ Battle Positions<br />
                    This includes Flip Summoning a monster, or changing the position
                    of a face-up monster to face-up Attack or Defense Position. You
                    can change the position of each monster you control, except in
                    three cases. <br />
                    1. You cannot change the battle position of a monster
                    that was played onto the field this turn. <br />
                    2. You cannot change it
                    in Main Phase 2 if the monster attacked during the Battle Phase.<br />
                    3. You cannot change it if you have already changed its battle
                    position once this turn.<br />

                    <h3>Active a Card or Effect</h3>
                    You can activate Spell and Trap Cards, or the effects of Spell, Trap,
                    or Effect Monster Cards as many times as you want during this
                    phase, as long as you can keep paying any costs involved.

                    <h3>Set Spell Cards and Trap Cards</h3>
                    You can Set Spell and Trap Cards face-down in your Spell and Trap
                    Card Zone during this phase, as long as you have space.

                    <h3>Battle Phase</h3>
                    Now it’s time to battle with your Monster Cards! This phase is divided
                    into steps.
                    You do not have to conduct a Battle Phase every turn. Even if you
                    have a monster on the field, you can choose to either enter the Battle
                    Phase, or to proceed to the End Phase.<br />
                    Possible Actions in
                    this phase<br />
                    Battle with Monsters<br />
                    Activate Trap Cards and QuickPlay<br />
                    Spell Cards<br />
                    Flow of the Battle Phase <br />
                    Start Step<br />
                    Battle Step<br />
                    End Step<br />
                    Damage Step<br />
                    The Battle Phase is split into 4
                    steps and is conducted in the
                    order shown in the diagram. The
                    Battle Step and Damage Step are
                    repeated each time you attack with
                    a monster.<br />

                    <h3>How To Play</h3>
                    After you have resolved all your battles by repeating the Battle
                    and Damage Steps, and you have no more monsters you want
                    to attack with, announce to your opponent that you are ending
                    your Battle Phase.<br />
                    In this step, the players calculate the result of the battle and
                    whatever damage is done. (See “Monster Battle Rules”, page 34.)
                    After finishing the Damage Step, return to the Battle Step.
                    Select 1 monster on your side of the field to attack with, and 1
                    of your opponent’s monsters as your attack target, and then
                    declare the attack. If your opponent does not have any monsters
                    on the field, you can attack directly. Play then proceeds to the
                    Damage Step. Afterwards, the attacking player returns to the
                    Battle Step, and repeats this procedure. Each face-up Attack
                    Position monster you control is allowed 1 attack per turn. You do
                    not have to attack with a monster if you don’t want to.<br />
                    End Step<br />
                    Damage Step<br />
                    Battle Step<br />
                    Start Step<br />
                    This step starts the Battle Phase. The turn player should
                    announce “I’m entering the Battle Phase”.<br /> 
                    <b>IMPORTANT:</b> The
                    player who goes first cannot conduct a Battle Phase in their very
                    first turn.
                    <br />

                    <h3>How To Play</h3>

                    Replay Rules during the Battle Step
                    After you’ve announced your
                    attacking monster and the attack
                    target monster during a Battle
                    Step, the attack target might
                    be removed from the field, or
                    a new monster may be played
                    onto the opponent’s side of the
                    field before the Damage Step, due
                    to a card’s effect. This causes a
                    “Replay.” When this occurs, you
                    can choose to attack with the
                    same monster again, or choose to
                    attack with a different monster, or
                    choose not to attack at all. Note
                    that if you attack with a different
                    monster, the first monster is still
                    considered to have declared an
                    attack, and it cannot attack again
                    this turn.
                    Declare your attacking
                    monster and your attack
                    target monster.
                    A replay happens!
                    Re-select a target
                    monster.
                    The
                    monsters
                    your opponent
                    controls change
                    before the Damage

                    <h3>How To Play</h3>
                    Main Phase 2<br />
                    End Phase<br />
                    Possible Actions in this phase<br />
                    Actions in this phase<br />
                    Possible other actions
                    in this phase<br />
                    Summon or Set a Monster<br />
                    Change your Monsters’ Battle Positions<br />
                    Active a Card or Effect<br />
                    Set Spell Cards and Trap Cards<br />
                    Announce the end of your turn, and if there are any cards on the
                    field which say “…during the End Phase…” in their text, resolve
                    those effects in this phase. If you have more than 6 cards in your
                    hand at the end of this phase, select and discard cards to the
                    Graveyard until you only have 6 cards in your hand.
                    If you conducted your Battle Phase, your turn moves to Main Phase 2
                    afterwards. The actions a player can perform in this phase are the same
                    as in Main Phase 1. However, if the player already did something in Main
                    Phase 1 that has a limit to the number of times it can be done, the player
                    cannot do it again in Main Phase 2. Consider if you want to activate and
                    Set Spell and Trap Cards, or Summon or Set a monster (if you didn’t do that
                    in Main Phase 1) based on your situation after the Battle Phase. Use this
                    phase to prepare for the opponent’s turn.
                    Resolve card effects which
                    activate in this phase
                    Discard if you have more than 6
                    cards in hand
                    Activate Trap Cards and QuickPlay
                    Spell Cards <br /><br />

                    More <a href="http://www.yugioh-card.com/uk/rulebook/V7_English_Rlbk_lores.pdf">Info</a>
                </div>        
            </ui:define>
        </ui:composition>
    </h:body>
</html>

